---
title: "Blogtober 2018"
date: 2018-10-01T23:18:49+02:00
summary: "Blogtober table of contents and introduction."
categories:
- blogtober
- longread
---

## Blogtober 2018 posts

- **1st October**: Kick-off post (this one!)
- **2nd October**: [Simple vs clever code style](/blog/2018-10-02-simple-vs-clever-code-style)
- **3rd October**: [Using email newsletters to stay up-to-date with web development](/blog/2018-10-03-using-email-newsletters-to-stay-up-to-date-with-web-development/)
- **4th October**: [Displaying Column Card Counts in Trello](/blog/2018-10-04-displaying-column-card-counts-in-trello/)
- **5th October**: [Current Development Learning Goals](/blog/2018-10-05-current-development-learning-goals/)
- **6th October**: Coming soon!
- **7th October**: [Blogging on your birthday](/blog/2018-10-07-blogging-on-your-birthday/)
- **8th October**: Coming soon!
- **9th October**: Coming soon!
- **10th October**: [CSS Polka Dot Background](/blog/2018-10-10-css-polka-dot-background/)
- **11th October**: [Emoji Silhouettes](/blog/2018-10-11-emoji-silhouettes/)
- **12th October**: [What a green GitHub graph doesn't show](blog/2018-10-12-what-a-green-github-graph-doesnt-show/)
- **13th October**: [Women's Wednesday Interview](blog/2018-10-13-womens-wednesday-interview/)
- **14th October**: [Why I Like Blogging as a Developer](/blog/2018-10-14-why-i-like-blogging-as-a-developer/)

## What is Blogtober?

Blogtober is a challenge where you pledge to write one blog post a day for each of they thirty-one days of October. I guess it was designed by someone with too much time on their hands.

I want to do it this year because:

- I have an ever-expanding list of 20+ post ideas that I never get round to writing
- I take too long to write a post, agonising over my words. I want to be able to get content out quicker and I imagine this challenge will help me improve at this.
- Practice makes perfect and I want to get better at writing blog posts.

My posts will cover the same subjects that they have over the last few months: explaining code snippets or tricks in CSS, JavaScript and other tools I use daily as a frontend web developer. I might start doing more opinion-based posts too.

Let's see if I can keep it up!
